# Sapper App Structure

**Topics**  
* [Introduction](./readme.md)
* [Routing](./02-routing.md)
* [Client API](./03-client-api.md)
* [Preloading](./04-preloading.md)
* [Layouts](./05-layouts.md)
* [Server-Side Rendering](./06-server-side-rendering.md)
* [Stores](./07-stores.md)
* [Prefetching](./08-prefetching.md)
* [Building](./09-building.md)
* [Exporting](./10-exporting.md)
* [Deployment](./11-deployment.md)
* [Security](./12-security.md)
* [Base URLs](./13-base-urls.md)
* [Testing](./14-testing.md)
* [Debugging](./15-debugging.md)
* [CSS Frameworks](./a1-css-frameworks.md)

**Contents**
* [package.json](#packagejson)
* [src](#src)
    * [src/client.js](#srcclientjs)
    * [src/server.js](#srcserverjs)
    * [src/service-worker.js](#srcservice-workerjs)
    * [src/template.html](#srctemplatehtml)
* [src/routes](#srcroutes)
* [static](#static)
* [rollup.config.js / webpack.config.js](#rollupconfigjs--webpackconfigjs)

If you take a look inside the [sapper-template](https://github.com/sveltejs/sapper-template) repo, you'll see some files that Sapper expects to find:

* `package.json`
* **src**
    * **routes**
        * *your routes here*
        * `_error.svelte`
        * `index.svelte`
    * `client.js`
    * `server.js`
    * `service-worker.js`
    * `template.html`
* **static**
    * *your files here*
* `rollup.config.js` / `webpack.config.js`

When you first run Sapper, it will create an additional `__sapper__` directory containing generated files.

You'll notice a few extra files and a `cypress` directory which relates to [testing](./14-testing.md).

## package.json
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

Your `package.json` contains your app's dependencies and defines a number of scripts:

* `npm run dev` - start the app in development mode, and watch source files for changes.
* `npm run build` - build the app in production mode.
* `npm run export` - bake out a static version, if applicable (see [exporting](./10-exporting.md)).
* `npm start` - start the app in production mode after you've built it.
* `npm test` - run the tests (see [testing](./14-testing.md)).

## src
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

This contains the three *entry points* for your app - `src/client.js`, `src/server.js`, and (optionally) `src/service-worker.js` - along with a `src/template.html` file.

### src/client.js
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

This *must* import, and call, the `start` function from the generated `@sapper/app` module:

```js
import * as sapper from '@sapper/app';

sapper.start({
  target: document.querySelector('#sapper')
});
```

In many cases, that's the entirety of your entry module, though you can do as much or as little here as you wish. See the [Client API](./03-client-api.md) section for more information on functions you can import.

### src/server.js
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

This is a normal Express (or [Polka](https://github.com/lukeed/polka), etc) app, with three requirements:

* it should serve the contents of the `static` folder, using for example [sirv](https://github.com/lukeed/sirv).
* it should call `app.use(sapper.middleware())` at the end, where `sapper` is imported from `@sapper/server`.
* it must listen on `process.env.PORT`.

Beyond that, you can write the server however you like.

### src/service-worker.js
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

Service workers act as proxy servers that give you fine-grained control over how to respond to network requests. For example, when the browser requests `/goats.jpg`, the service worker can respond with a file it previously cached, or it can pass the request on to the server, or it could even respond with something completely different, such as a picture of llamas.

Among other things, this makes it possible to build applications that work offline.

Because every app needs a slightly different service worker (sometimes it's appropriate to always serve from the cache, sometimes that should only be a last resort in case of no connectivity), Sapper doesn't attempt to control the service worker. Instead, you write the logic in `service-worker.js`. You can import any of the following from `@sapper/service-worker`:

* `files` - an array of files found in the `static` directory.
* `shell` - the client-side JavaScript generated by the bundler (Rollup or webpack).
* `routes` - an array of `{ pattern: RegExp }` objects you can use to determine whether a Sapper-controlled page is being requested.
* `timestamp` - the time the service worker was generated (useful for generating unique cache names).

### src/template.html
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

This file is a template for responses from the server. Sapper will inject content that replaces the following tags:

* `%sapper.base% - a `<base>` element (see [Base URLs](./13-base-urls.md)).
* `%sapper.styles%` - critical CSS for the page being requested.
* `%sapper.head%` - HTML representing page-specific `<head>` contents, like `<title>`.
* `%sapper.html%` - HTML representing the body of the page being rendered.
* `%sapper.scripts%` - script tags for the client-side app.

## src/routes
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

This is the meat of your app - the pages and server routes. See the section on [routing](./02-routing.md) for the juicy details.

## static
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

This is a place to put any files that your app uses - fonts, images and so on. For example, `static/favoicon.png` will be served as `/favicon.png`.

SSapper doesn't serve these files - you'd typically use [sirv](https://github.com/lukeed/sirv) or [serve-static](https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static) for that - but it will read the contents of the `static` folder so that you can easily generate a cache manifest for offline support.

## rollup.config.js / webpack.config.js
[Back to Top](#sapper-app-structure)

Sapper can use [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) or [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) to bundle your app. You probably won't need to change the config, but if you want to (for example to add new loaders or plugins), you can.